So these days it's a little bit
more complicated to do AB testing.
There are tools out there, but they seem
to be really expensive, in my opinion, for
what they wanna do.
Convert is a good one, but
it's like $300 plus a month,
which seems like a stacked
load of money to me.
Crazy Egg is a much cheaper alternative.
But Crazy Egg is a little bit more
limited in what you can do, but
for basic stuff to get you going,
it's a good start.
There are also things like
Visual Website Optimizer, which again,
is crazily expensive,
but it's got free tier.
So you could try out for a bit and
prove to people that AB
testing is worth doing, right?
And what's great about these
tools is they make it so
incredibly easy to make changes.
So you basically,
it gives you a WYSIWYG, right?
Just you simply click on
the thing that you wanna edit and
change it, like that, couldn't be easier.
So that's my live website and
I click on the title and
I can put different title in, right?
So, no technical skill required other
than putting the JavaScript in,
to begin with, but then that's it.
If you wanna be a bit more ambitious,
maybe you wanna change quite a lot on a
page then you could do a redirect things.
So basically, you say, the majority of
people are gonna see the original version
of the page, but we've got an alternative
version that we can send a percentage of
people off to if we want to.
I tend to think once you get into that
kind of realm where you're making larger
changes, I think there are better
ways of doing it if I'm honest.
So for example, you might look at
the problem that you're having
with the site and
you might go, well, okay,
people are dropping out at this page,
but actually it's this whole flow or
this wizard or this interactive thing
that is not quite working right.
We can't just change a bit of text and
an image and it'll fix it,
is gonna be more complicated than that.
Now the problem is you could do that
with AB testing, but you have to
build the whole thing in order for
it to AB test and it might perform badly.
So that's a lot of effort and a lot of,
for something that might not work.
So in all those kinds of situations
where it's more complicated and
there's a lot of interactivity to build.
I tend to go back to prototyping
in this situation, right.
So basically, if you're changing
multiple screens, which is more than you
would change on a single AB test,
then you probably wanna be prototyping.
If there's a lot of complicated
interactions like say an interactive map
or something along those lines,
then you probably wanna prototype instead.
And if it's gonna be costly to build
the version that you gonna test,
then prototype it instead rather than
jump into the build straightaway.
And then you can just test
it with usability testing,
just like we did with
the prototype before, right?
So you could do facilitated or
unfacilitated remote or in-person.
And you can consider that ongoing testing,
I was talking about one morning every
month, and you just carry on like that.
Basically, it's a rinse and repeat
process where you roll out one change and
great, that change is working.
Right, let's go back to our list of,
poor-performing pages.
Pick the next one off the top
of the list and carry on and
do that one and improve that one and then
back again and round and round and round.
And in the end, you'll end up with a page
that you'd already updated once is
now the poor-performing page.
And well, let's see if we can make
even better one so on and so on.
In most cases, it never gets that far
because you have resource constraints and
that kind of thing.